Added support for custom CSS properties in the StyleWrapper (#5581)
plone/volto: docs/source/blocks/block-style-wrapper.md

```
Then it's at your discretion how you define the CSS class names in your theme.

## Customize the injected class names

> 

Reviewer: I don't know in which version this will be released, but this is a helpful admonition for developers. See also https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syntax/admonitions.html#admonition-types. There is also `versionchanged` if you think that is more appropriate, but this smells like a new feature, so I went with `versionadded`.

````suggestion

```{versionadded} release-version-number
```

````

Author: The classnames injection was released somehwere in middle 16 I think.

Reviewer: Oh, I thought you are adding the custom CSS properties feature with this PR?

But for the original version, at the top of the file just below the title, we should have:

````
```{versionadded} 16.0.0
```
````

Reviewer: Or are you referring to the interim, where something changed?

https://github.com/plone/volto/commits/5b4ec3f31ed20a12fc3eb25ffc49c9dee11bb4eb/docs/source/blocks/block-style-wrapper.md

If so, then wherever that changed, it should have the same syntax:

````
```{versionchanged} 16.x.x-or-whatever
```
````

Author: Moved to the top. The thing added now is only the custom properties, so it's also noted above it with another versionadded.

Reviewer: OK. That works for the title, but we need a specific release number for this new feature here. That could be tricky if you backport it, but you would just need to remember to do the chore.

Reviewer: Oh, nm, I see you did that below. I had not scrolled down yet.

will generate classnames `primary inverted`

## Injecting custom CSS properties

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion

```{versionadded} release-version-number
```

````

The style wrapper also allows to inject custom CSS properties, using the converter syntax.

> This use case is useful in some scenarios where the property that you are injecting is generic, customizable per project.

Reviewer: I'm not sure whether "generic" and "customizable" should be used in the same sentence. Either the class is generic or customized, but not both at the same time. Can you clarify which it is or is it either one or the other?

```suggestion
This use case is useful in the scenario where the property that you want to inject is either generic or is customizable per project.
```

Author: I did frown too but it's what it is... something ready to be customized, then it's generic, right?

Reviewer: Something ready to be customized is "customizable". Generic means general or lacking specificity. I edited my suggestion accordingly and made it more concise.

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```css
````

{
  "styles": {

>     "backgroundColor:CSSProperty": "#222",

Reviewer 2: Could this be written as 
```suggestion
    "--background-color": "#222",
```
instead? Neither one can be accessed without square brackets in javascript, so I don't see a benefit to transforming the name to something else. Writing it the same way as the actual CSS property seems clearer to me.

Author: The converters detection system now works with sufixes, colon separated. Are you saying that you'd prefer to add another detection system based on if '--' is present?

Author: It's a good point though...

Author: @davisagli done, it was easy than expected.

  }
}
```

> will inject a style object prop in the component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above style will inject a style object property in the following component:
```

```html
<div class="block teaser" style="--background-color: #222">
```

```{note}

> Please notice that the resultant variable is transformed from camel case to kebab case.

Reviewer: "Note" is inserted automatically in the admonition.

```suggestion
The resultant variable is transformed from camel case to kebab case.
```

Author: Removed, no longer applies.

```

Then, provided that you have the following CSS in place:

```css
.block.teaser {
  background-color: var(--background-color);
}
```

It will apply the variable value injected by the style wrapper for the teaser block.

If you want to use it in your custom components, you need to apply it in the root of your block's view component as follows:

```jsx
const BlockView = (props)=> (
  <div style={props.style}>
    // Block's view component code
  </div>
)
```

```{note}

> You need to manually add the above code in your view component block code in order to benefit from the style injection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to manually add the above code in your view component block code to benefit from the style injection.
```

will generate classnames `primary inverted`

> ## Injecting custom CSS properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Inject custom CSS properties
```

For example, imagine you have an existing global CSS custom property `--image-aspect-ratio` that you use for all images in all blocks.
Then in your customized theme, you could set CSS attributes for this property, changing it in runtime.
The key feature of custom CSS properties is that they can be applied also using the cascade.
This means that they can be placed anywhere in either CSS definitions or HTML structure, and they will be applied only in the context where they are defined.

As an example, first define the style of a teaser block image as follows.

```css
.block.teaser img {
  aspect-ratio: var(--image-aspect-ratio, 16 / 9);
}
```

Next, you can enhance a block's schema by injecting the custom CSS property as follows.

```js
  schema.properties.styles.schema.fieldsets[0].fields = [
    ...schema.properties.styles.schema.fieldsets[0].fields,
    '--image-aspect-ratio',
  ];

  // We use a select widget and set a default
  schema.properties.styles.schema.properties['--image-aspect-ratio'] = {
    widget: 'select',
    title: 'Aspect Ratio',
    choices: [
      ['1', '1:1'],
      ['16 / 9', '16/9'],
    ],
    default: '1',
  };
```

> Finally the markup of the block will contain the custom property as shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, assuming that you select the default value for the {guilabel}`Aspect Ratio` for the custom CSS property, then the markup of the block will contain the custom property as shown.
```

```html
<div class="block teaser" style="--image-aspect-ratio: 1">

> ...

Reviewer: Without an `img`, I don't see how the property will be applied because the selector does not actually match anything in the HTML as it is.

```suggestion
<img src="example.png">
```

```{versionadded} 17.8.0
```

The style wrapper also allows to inject custom CSS properties.
This is useful where the property that you want to inject is customizable per project.
For example, imagine we have in place a global CSS custom property `--image-aspect-ratio` so all the images in blocks (teasers, listings too) use it. The idea was that someone in his customized theme could set it and change them all in runtime, because this is how custom CSS properties work.
The key feature of custom CSS properties is that they can be applied also using the cascade.

> This means that they can be placed anywhere in the CSS definitions or in the HTML structure, and they will be applied only in the context they are defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that they can be placed anywhere in either CSS definitions or HTML structure, and they will be applied only in the context where they are defined.
```

> When the feature in this PR is used combined with the above you can enhance a block's schema (eg. teaser) as follows:

Reviewer: Again, I'm not clear, so here's my best guess:

```suggestion
Next, you can enhance a block's schema by injecting the custom CSS property as follows.
```

```js
  schema.properties.styles.schema.fieldsets[0].fields = [
    ...schema.properties.styles.schema.fieldsets[0].fields,
    '--image-aspect-ratio',
  ];

  // We use a select widget and set a default
  schema.properties.styles.schema.properties['--image-aspect-ratio'] = {
    widget: 'select',
    title: 'Aspect Ratio',
    choices: [
      ['1', '1:1'],
      ['16 / 9', '16/9'],
    ],
    default: '1',
  };
```

> Then, the markup of the block will contain the custom property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then the markup of the block will contain the custom property:
```

> Then, the markup of the block will contain the custom property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally the markup of the block will contain the custom property as shown.
```

```html
<div class="block teaser" style="--image-aspect-ratio: 1">
...
</div>
```

> and if we have this CSS definitions in place:

Reviewer: I think that we should move the CSS code-block and this sentence to line 183. It flows better to define CSS first, then inject it through JS, and finally show the resultant HTML.

```suggestion
As an example, first define the style of a teaser block image as follows.
```

Author: Not really, the above explanation was about how custom CSS properties work, the next is how you take advantage of it. The custom CSS property

```css
.block.teaser img {
  aspect-ratio: var(--image-aspect-ratio, 16 / 9);
}
```

The custom CSS property definition will only apply within the div that it's defined.

> Then the CSS where it's used will apply that custom CSS property value for only that div.

Reviewer: I read the above two sentences a half-dozen times, and I am not sure why both are needed.

```suggestion
As you can see, the custom CSS property applies only within the `div` in which it is defined.
```

Author: @stevepiercy I'm just stating how custom CSS properties work, in case that somebody didn't realise that this can be done.

Reviewer: I'm confused because this appears to be just how CSS works, and we really don't want to reinvent a [tutorial for basic CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/CSS_basics). Maybe instead we add a seealso admonition?

````

```{seealso}
[CSS basics](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/CSS_basics)
```

````

Also these two sentences as they are now don't make things clear to me. If we use the official W3C terms, maybe this conveys your intent?

````suggestion
As you can see, the custom CSS declaration applies only in the `div` where you inject the property.
````
